

=== Simpson-Protocol-BOOK-2021.pdf ===
THE SIMPSON
PROTOCOL

Holistic Hypnosis

Working in deep states for Optimum
Outcomes??















The Simpson Protocol Created by

Ines Simpson










thesimpsonprotocol.com

simpsonprotocolonline.com



©inessimpsonhypnosis.com – 2016,2020


1



Contents
Simpson Protocol? ................................................................... 3
SP is a Holistic system, an inclusive approach to Hypnosis. .... 4
Simpson Protocol- the Bullet Points? ...................................... 6
Open Source Hypnosis? ........................................................... 7
Who is this for? ...................................................................... 13
A little bit about the evolution of SP ...................................... 15
So, what is the Superconscious? ............................................ 20
Using the SP Protocol and its benefits: .................................. 22
Some Testimonials & Commentary ....................................... 24
Ines Simpson, the Esdaile state and Simpson Protocol ......... 28
Where SP is going................................................................... 31
Simpson Protocol Advanced .................................................. 33
HOW and WHERE to LEARN SIMPSON PROTOCOL ................ 34
SP UPCOMING SEMINARS ...................................................... 34
Why can I not learn Simpson Protocol online, Ines? ............. 35
Simpson Protocol around the world ...................................... 36
Who is Dave Elman of the Elman Induction? ......................... 37
Gerald Kein ............................................................................. 39


2

A brief history of Modern Hypnosis ....................................... 41
Fact or Myth in Hypnosis ....................................................... 44
INES SIMPSON BIO ................................................................. 50



3

Simpson Protocol?
Ines Simpson says: Hypnosis isn’t the ‘thing’ – it’s the thing that
gets you to the ‘thing’ – and that thing is the Client’s Other,
Higher Mind and its connections to the energies around us
The Simpson Protocol is a complete Integrated holistic approach
to hypnosis.
It works Through Deep States – such as Profound
Somnambulism, Esdaile and Sichort – to reach all levels and
parts of the Clients psyche to achieve its lasting and profound
outcomes
It also simplifies the entire Hypnosis process both for the
Practitioner and the Client
No scripts needed. The client is always the script and leads the
process
As Stin-Niels Musche said when he first saw Ines Simpson
demonstrate Simpson Protocol at the NGH in Boston –  This is
what I imagined Hypnosis was all about before I was told it
wasn’t possible”
However he said it in German – it sounds  better in German
The Simpson Protocol is in constant change as it absorbs more
and more of the input from its Practitioners.
Sort of like open source software that has a rock solid kernel
core that can be used for any application




4

SP is a Holistic system, an inclusive
approach to Hypnosis.
A lot of things claim to be holistic of course – but what I
mean here is that SP Hypnosis takes into account and
changes not just the ‘issue’ – the client’s ‘complaint’ but
everything that surrounds and supports that complaint,
PLUS instills in the client a deep solid foundation, checks
for any other side issues, or supporting issues, secondary
gain issues, – and clears them.
SP will also connect the client strongly to him or herself
and give them the inner strength to have a fighting chance
to avoid the intake of any further issue or issues.
Now we are humans and once one issue and its support
are dealt with there is always another issue that is lurking,
or another habit we engage in. But once the initial session
or sessions (maybe up to 3 – usually 1 to 2) are over the
typically I will not see that client again for 6 to 9 months –
and never with the same issue.
Does this make SP sound ‘magic’ too good to be good to
be true. Probably – but let’s consider the process.
SP connects with the higher Superconscious mind of the
client and allows it to do all the work of ‘healing’ (in the
largest possible sense of the word).
This higher mind or what I call (because we need a word)
the Superconscious is apparently that part of our minds
that seems connected (the collective unconscious?) to all
wisdom and knowledge.


5

This is not form, a faith or weird airy fairy wishful thinking
thing.
I say this from experiments experiences and case studies
This part of the mind appears to be able to have the power
to adjust and fix whatever is the most needed by that
particular client – whether they ( or I the hypnotist ) know
it or not. It has nothing to with the hypnotists or the
client’s conscious needs. It seems to be the pure work of
the mind – through the physical.
And we are able to reach that ‘higher ‘ part of the mind by
using ‘deep’ levels of hypnosis – what is called the Esdaile
state (though it doesn’t matter what name you use as the
state is testable) – and from there accessing multiple
‘levels’ of the mind or whatever it is that facilitates
optimum change for the client.
(Words like ‘deep’ ‘higher mind’ ‘mind levels’ etc. are just
word, code words used to allow the hypnotist to function
in these areas. Everything, in fact, seems capable of being
done by mere intent).

“Ines, thank you so much for your caring and intuitive
connection with us as students. I will use this wonderful addition
to the tools I already have as a hypnotherapist and in our course
Ray and I teach. This brings a whole new Dimension to the
ability to guide clients into healing and self-empowerment.
Thank you again!”
– Joni Wilay-Zukowski



6


Simpson Protocol- the Bullet Points?
The Simpson Protocol (S.P.) is infinitely flexible, and
infinitely variable - allowing the Hypnotist to deal with any
issue or trauma simply and efficiently - producing great
outcomes for the client.
Simpson Protocol is not about solving or ‘fixing’ one
issue. Its about going through all the issues necessary
to achieve the OUTCOME the Client wishes
S.P. takes the Hypnotist’s Judgement out of the process
- the whole session is led by the
clients 'Superconscious'

The Hypnotist has no need to be aware of the 'issue' in
S.P. The outcome can be achieved without the
Hypnotist having any knowledge of the particular
problem.

As it is the Client’s 'Superconscious" that leads the
session, any type of issue, trauma or event can be
treated.

A simple, flexible, system that uses 'deep' states of
Hypnosis (Esdaile and beyond) to access and
neutralize the deepest traumas to produce huge
positive outcomes simply and quickly.





7

The essence and secret to a successful Simpson
Protocol Session? When stuck or in doubt never be
afraid to ask one more question of the Superconscious
Mind – as long as you always accept the answer
unconditionally.


Open Source Hypnosis?
Simpson Protocol Hypnosis as a system could almost be
considered an ‘open source’ system that allows for so
much experimentation and expansion – without this
changing its core values of being Holistic and Inclusive
But perhaps most of all the reason Simpson Protocol
Hypnosis is so successful and complete as a system is
because of all the things it brings together from the world
of Modern Hypnosis.
To begin with it combines the best aspects of the practices
of Dave Elman and Milton Erickson
(Note you don’t need to be a genius like Erickson or a
Showman like Elman to make it work – another bonus)
Milton Erickson
“Just as it’s possible to talk about hypnosis before and
after James Braid, so it’s possible to talk about hypnosis
before and after Erickson. His influence is enormous. In a
very real sense, he remade hypnosis in his own image.”


8

“ Above all, his interest was in the therapeutic value of
hypnosis, and to this end, he adopted a unique approach.
So unique, in fact, that it could be said that true
Ericksonian therapy died with Erickson.”
http://www.historyofhypnosis.org/
Erickson   believed in allowing the client maximum
freedom to interpret what is being said in their own way –
for example, “you may begin to find new ways of feeling at
ease at parties”, instead of “you are now more confident in
talking to complete strangers at parties.”
Simpson Protocol, in the same way offers no judgment –
The Client’s own Mind does the work.
In Simpson Protocol language is of vital importance – open
language – no leading. Allow the Client’s Mind to find the
optimum way for that client to resolve the issue
Erickson went to great lengths to see the world from the
client’s point of view, helping them reach their own goals
and solutions, rather than imposing his own idea of
happiness on them.
Simpson Protocol (SP) removes Judgement and guesswork
from Hypnosis
All reality is the Client’s reality
The whole process from the Induction to the outcome is to
empower the client and allow them to finally take charge
of their own processes.


9

In fact, Simpson Protocol goes one step further – as the
Hypnotists does not even need to know the issue they are
working on. The Client’s ‘Higher’ Mind always knows and if
allowed will work through the issues or issues to get the
Optimum outcome.
This takes pressure off the hypnotist and client- and they
can just allow the process work

Dave Elman
An important figure in the development of practical
hypnosis is Dave Elman (1900-1967), a vaudeville
performer from North Dakota, often billed as “The World’s
Youngest and Fastest Hypnotist”. Elman, who’d been
fascinated by hypnosis since a very early age, adapted the
rapid induction techniques used by stage hypnotists for
therapeutic purposes, teaching them to doctors and
physicians and eventually publishing a book,
Hypnotherapy (1964), which is regarded as a classic in the
field.
http://www.historyofhypnosis.org/
The Elman induction achieves trance in minutes,
sometimes seconds, freeing up the hypnotist to
concentrate on therapeutic work. It also represents a move
away from the more directive, “you are feeling sleepy”
style of hypnosis, where subjects were basically told to go
into trance by the authoritarian figure of the hypnotist.


10

Simpson Protocol allows the Hypnotist to step back and
merely be a guide for the Client. Authoritarian Hypnotists
need not apply.
Simpson Protocol is simple fast and is non directive.
Simpson Protocol uses the Elman induction – revised and
updated – to allow the Client to find deep states of
Hypnosis that work best for them for that session and that
day. It also allows the Hypnotist to know exactly at what
state or level the client has reached
The Elman Induction (if done correctly) is one of the few
Inductions ever devised to have covert testing throughout
so the Hypnotist  without any overt testing knows where
the client is in the process.
To know ‘where’ the Client is in the process allows the SP
(Simpson Protocol) Practitioner to allow the client to attain
Deep States of Hypnosis simply and quickly. That’s a main
reason SP finds the Elman Induction so valuable.

James Esdaile
Of course also Elman was one of the first to have the Client
attain the Esdaile state – on purpose ( James Esdaile
another Hypnosis pioneer)
SP was the first protocol to allow interaction at the Esdaile
level – which had previously not thought to be possible.


11

This Level, named after James Esdaile, was used by James
Esdaile in place of anesthetic ( not at then readily
available) It was a long process taking upwards of 10
days!!.
Elman go it down to a few minutes. And SP the same – but
can use it on purpose in Pre and Post Op situations,
Birthing etc.
In SP the Esdaile State is not a mystery or an
incommunicado state. The Client if they so choose can do
a whole session in Esdaile and be able to communicate
with the Hypnotists and vice versa

Jerry Kein
Jerry Kein ( Ines Simpson’s  Mentor) took Elman’s training
and Regression to Cause methods , improved and refined
and expanded it – and was able to use the Induction to
allow Students  attain Esdaile and Sichort states  (Walter
Sichort – see Ultra-Depth)
Jerry Kein always encouraged his students to spend 10% of
their time experimenting – to move Hypnosis constantly
into new territory.
Ines Simpson took this to heart – and through
experimentation and necessity of working in all aspects of
a Client’s issues – SP was gradually developed.


12

SP practitioners are encouraged to always experiment
which is why SP is always in ‘development’. Always moving
forward. The Ultimate open source system of Hypnosis.
Because of this constant input from working with Client’s
and practitioner of all levels experimenting – it allows SP –
to develop but to also simplify itself. To get maximum
outcome from Optimum effort.

Fritz Perls
SP includes, Regression, Chair Therapy ( as Jerry Kein used-
though in SP it is much simplified and refined process)
Forgiveness work and much more, and even takes a form
of Gestalt therapy that was created by Fritz Perls. Again
simplified in SP and refined to always get the maximum
outcome for the Client from Optimum Effort
Side note: Fritz Perls in  1969  left Esalen and started a Gestalt
community at Lake Cowichan on Vancouver Island, Canada. – just
down the road from where Ines Simpson would eventually set up her
practice on Vancouver Island


13


Who is this for?
Well ask Ines Simpson who this is for and she will say - ‘it’s
for me of course!’
The Protocol was developed, (emerged) over time as Ines
Simpson experimented with the process of Hypnosis as a
Tool for Change .She wanted to simplify the process to
allow her to be more efficient. She wanted to develop a
methodology that could take the Hypnotists straight to the
heart of any issue, without the Hypnotists having to guess
or over analyse. A method that would, in the end take the
Hypnotists judgement and subjective opinions and history
out of the process.
Over time she found a way to communicate with
something she calls the Superconscious Mind - a higher
mind certainly – but something that seems to be able to
connect with any and all information needed, and has only
the client’s Higher needs as its guiding Principle. The
subconscious may have the client’s self-preservation as its
main driving force, this Superconscious Mind seems only
to want what is ultimate and best for the client.
And this Superconsciousness, allows the Hypnotist to
become a guide and facilitator - allowing the Client’s own
Mind to achieve the optimum result.
Using this form of communication, the Hypnotist never has
to guess, or in most case even know what the issue is –
merely to guide the client and connect the client with his


14

or her own superconscious and allow the clients own mind
to do all the work.
So the Protocol became a method that both simplified and
expanded the reach of hypnosis for the Hypnotist
Practitioner.
A way for the Hypnotist to always be sure they are dealing
with the correct issue at the correct time, and to know
that the process, guided by the client’s superconscious
only has one desired outcome – the best for the client.
And importantly in cases of abuse or PTSD – there is no
need for the client to relate any of the details of the issue
or issues to the Hypnotist. The Hypnotist need only know
there is an issue and the client is willing to deal with it, at
this time.
It is an Advanced System of Hypnosis - and therefore
benefits the experienced Hypnotist Practitioner. But
because it is simple to apply and learn, and all
encompassing, taking in every aspect of Hypnosis - it is
ideal for the beginner (who has at least a grasp on the
fundamentals) to learn and apply.
It is not a foundation course - but an all-encompassing
hypnosis system for the beginner or the experienced
hypnotist to apply in any niche, practice or application that
uses Hypnosis.

“When I saw Ines Simpson demonstrate the Simpson
Protocol - I knew this was what I had been looking for. This
is what Hypnosis should be about”  Stin-Niels Musche


15

A little bit about the evolution of SP

Let’s start like this:
What SP (Simpson Protocol)  is not:
It isn’t a clever little add on that sounds good for a client
but serves no real purpose
Nor is it me being obtuse and trying to reconfigure a part
of Hypnosis so I can get my name on something. SP in fact
was never supposed to be a thing – it was just an on- going
evolution I was following until some students decided to
call it Simpson Protocol
What SP is :
A process – an ongoing evolution of Hypnosis I took to
solve practical problems I encountered with my clients
A process that began with Esdaile and then worked on and
improved by Dave Elman and then Jerry Kein – all of them
moving Hypnosis forward to become more and more
efficient and powerful as a way to change clients bad
situations. To provide a simple flexible overall method that
works completely and effectively
I just took it all a little further.
I loved Regression work – I used it for all my clients – for
everything. Its only later reviewing Jerry Kein’s work I even
realised that he actually taught things other than
Regression!!


16

However I was running into situations with clients I wasn’t
able to simply resolve with just Regression or Just chair
therapy etc.
Clients didn’t want to tell me their horrific stories – and
after a while I didn’t want to hear them. But if I didn’t
know the ‘issue’ how could I address it?
Plus I knew that at Esdaile there was profound by-pass of
the critical factor – but no apparent way to communicate
to the client in that state
And fixing what we call an ISE – if I could find it – would
sometimes only provide temporary relief, as there were
other issues present and I sometimes missed them.
To work around these challenges, and many others as I
moved forward, I gradually developed this system called
The Simpson Protocol.
And the Simpson Protocol is not a fixed thing it isalways
evolving as I and students work on it with clients.
SP is holistic but also ever open to positive change that
produces better outcomes. I’m always looking for ways to
speed up the process and simplify it. I started out with 2 ½
hour session and now I can resolve 5 or 6 issues in just
over an hour session (most of the time – nothing is ever
fixed in Hypnosis)
The process is led by what I call the Superconscious – a
mind , apart from us or part of us, I have no idea – but
certainty connected and certainly profoundly interested in
giving the individual the best and most appropriate
outcome at that given time.


17

Of course when dealing with ‘the mind’ we are guessing at
words. Maybe there is no such thing as the Superconscious
- maybe it’s just a higher ultimate part of us that always
seems to respond and produce desired outcome – who
knows. It doesn’t matter. For me it’s the results that
matter.
Then I found a level or state called High that seemed to be
a center for reaching wherever the higher ,
Superconscious mind wanted to go, to work efficiently.
(Though I am sure we don’t ‘go’ anywhere – it’s perhaps
just a way of understanding for the conscious mind)
As I was working with this Superconscious – I only needed
to form yes no questions that led me, and the client to the
most appropriate and beneficial outcomes from the client.
I didn’t need to know the particular issue – the client knew
it, the Superconscious knew it – I was merely the facilitator
to lead the client to a place where they could use their
own mind to ‘fix’ their issue the best and most appropriate
way
If I didn’t need client input then I didn’t need to know the
issue directly, so clients no longer needed to discuss
sexual abuse or other shame issues with me .And with
post-traumatic stress where the client definitely doesn’t
want to relive them for you or themselves  - it was a
simple process. The superconscious did the work – all I
needed to do was create the trance and acceptance and
willingness from the client to allow the issue to be
resolved.


18

And sometimes neither I nor the client know the issue –
just the symptoms – again we don’t need to know. The
higher inner mind knows and that’s all that is necessary.
Now  SP has moved forward -away from the necessity of
needing an Esdaile state - to a process that uses any Deep
state to work with the Superconscious. And the
relationship trust and understanding between hypnotist
and Superconscious became the thing.
And this also allows for a full and holistic outcome. The
Higher Mind will always do everything that is necessary.
The Hypnotist doesn’t have to guess or wonder if
everything has been done . The Hypnotists just has to ask
for it to be done!
As SP is taught to more and more hypnotists and they
began to use it in their daily practice – ‘the field’ of SP ( as
in quantum or morphic field concept) allowed faster
sessions and more and deeper reach for SP.
Surrogacy is a snap – with humans or animals. Fertility
issues were cleared sometimes in one session – whether it
was  male or female issue. Fertility issues after the medical
profession had given up – and thousands of dollars had
been spent. A simple one or two sessions often create real
changes. Again depending on the clients willingness to
allow the process to work.
Birthing where the fetus and mother are deeply connected
pre-birth through their own higher minds. Yes the fetus is
‘aware’


19

PTSD situations are cleared often in one session (though 3
sessions would be recommended as a default) And in
some cases , many cases, cancer and other chronic
diseases have resolved. ( Not in all cases, it’s never a
guarantee – but in a surprising number). Pain, anxiety
chronic dis-eases or discomfort can be changed in one
session.
SP is very exciting to use and be a part of – to see the
outcomes that are possible – in such a simple and flexible
system.
Anyone who takes SP – their biggest reaction is to how
simple and efficient it is to use. And there is no harm that
can be done. And no involved process and guesswork.

I had a hypno student abreaction in class whilst demonstrating
an induction on another student…. I moved straight into SP to
protect her confidentiality in the group….
superconscious took over the issue(s) and sorted. She tells me
she slept for 24 hours sweated IT out and feels amazing now.
And she had been on dozens of retreats and energy courses to
heal previously…
PS I still don’t know what the issue is… nor need to.’
Beryl Comar-Hypnotist & Trainer




20

So, what is the Superconscious?
When we are dealing with terms for the mind –depth terms,
levels etc. – we are pretty much always using ‘code words’ or
marker words. That is words that convey some thing if not every
thing about what we are describing.
For instance – ‘depths’ of Hypnosis. Do we go actually deeper –
and if so who or which part is going there? It doesn’t matter we
all agree the word will do. And as far as the mind is concerned it
always seems to know our intention.
As for Levels? SP uses a lot of ‘levels – ‘High’, ‘Physical Level,
‘Emotional Level’, ‘Mental Level”. Etc. – what are levels of the
Mind?
Ines Simpson says she has no idea – its just that they work and
keep the Conscious Mind happy.
Basically, she says ‘Its like being able to open all or as many
doors to the Mind as is required to achieve the Outcome’
We use terms like Subconscious and Unconscious and Higher
Mind etc. and we come to some sort of hypnosis professionally
arrangement that we all agree that they will mean something
other than the conscious state and to some degree or other
these states will work independent of our conscious mind. And
that they are a part of us.
So, given that - to me (Ines) then, the Superconscious is that
part of us, or perhaps that part we can connect to, that knows
everything and ONLY works for our Highest Good.




21

Or we can say  we know about your conscious mind and
your sub-conscious mind, but not your SUPER-conscious
mind. That is the part of your mind that will mediate
between your conscious and sub-conscious when we do
the work.
Your mind knows how you arrived at this point, so it
stands to reason that your mind knows how to resolve the
issue/issues involved.
If we use the analogy of the Internet – we are all connected –
then Superconscious is an algorithm for GOOD that can find
search out and work with any part of the internet- or anything
connected to the Internet – always and only for thee client’s
best outcome
Again, this not theory or speculation but something arrived at
by experience and results. I have never been in contact with the
Superconscious when it ever did something against the good of
the client. And I have been able to have the client receive
answers through or from the Superconscious about things they
can have no knowledge of. And when we work with the
Superconscious the outcomes are optimum and lasting. And we
achieve them in a very short time period.
Perhaps this is Jung’s Collective Unconscious, perhaps this is
where the quantum  fields – all of them – exist, perhaps it’s the
God part. I have no idea. And it doesn’t matter. Because the
results are what count. The outcomes.
Everyone can have that connection to the Superconscious – and
yes, the first time it’s always a bit weird.
The Simpson Protocol developed as a way to reach and work
with the Superconscious.


22

The Esdaile state is a fast and easy way to do this. However
achieving Esdaile is not essential – deep Somnambulism will
work just as well.
The Simpson Protocol is not just about the Esdaile state.
The Simpson Protocol is the Hypnotists learning to work with
the Superconscious and build an understanding and rapport
with that state.


Using the SP Protocol and its benefits:
• It’s very fast – The Higher Mind works everything
the most efficient way possible. Multiple issues can
be cleared in one session.
• Very non obtrusive -the client never needs to
reveal what the issue is – or even what is
happening during the hypnosis session
• It is Client empowering – they have all the power
and do all the work – and they recognize this.
• The Hypnotist’s Judgement is taken out of the
process. The higher Mind dictates what is or is not
done.
• The system allows a hypnotist to take ANYONE
(99.99% if the time) to Esdaile or as close as
needed within 3 – 5 minutes, and thus access this
Superconscious or Higher Mind without Conscious
interference


23

•
And for the hypnotist once the basics are learned –
the system is wide ranging far reaching and easy to
use for ANY issue.
• SP does not use scripts or formulas. It allows the
hypnotist and the client’s mind the freedom to
reach out to any issue that comes up, in the
moment.
• Abreactions are simple to handle and much less
stressful for the client than normal Regression to
cause work.
• Parts therapy, Gestalt therapy, Universal therapy,
can all be done with a question.
• I would like to say I developed this Protocol with all
these factors in mind. But I didn’t. It was a process
of discovery. I was looking for a process that would
get the best results in the easiest and less stressful
way possible for all concerned
• It is a process that depends on the open and trusting
relationship between the Hypnotists and the Client’s
Superconscious.
Ines Simpson is a very respected hypnotist and lecturer on the
Esdaile State. [S]he is widely regarded as one of the top experts
in the world. I came away impressed with her professional
expertise, but also with her character. She never hesitates to say
“I don’t know” or “Not proven yet.”  And THAT level of humility
and honesty is not always present in world-class experts.”
– H. Larry Elman (Dave Elman’s son)



24


Some Testimonials & Commentary
This from a fresh SP Grad - just goes and does it - right
out of the book!

“...I met... a twenty-something guy who had experienced a
violent, very traumatic experience a few years before I
met him. Whatever had happened to him was beginning to
impact his daily life now, including his professional and
interpersonal life, to the point where he wasn’t even able
to attend social events without tremendous anxiety.

As a psychologist, I quickly identified the PTSD that this
person was obviously experiencing and estimated that it
would take many sessions and quite a bit of work on both
our parts to help him get through this. However, as a
hypnotist, I wondered if we could do some work
hypnotically to help him come to grips with what he had
gone through.
When I went through the two-day training ( Simpson
Protocol), I could not help but think of the person with
whom I had just met and I began to look at how to help
him through the lens of the Protocol. I especially liked that
the client would not have to relive his experiences and
have to tell me about what happened. The Simpson
Protocol allows all of that work to happen within the mind
of the person and so the emotional trauma can be
buffered in a way that can’t be done through usual
regression techniques, not to mention through traditional
psychotherapy.


25


When I returned to the office and met with the person on
a Friday, I used the Simpson Protocol right down to the
letter, using her helpful manual. After our session, he
wasn’t sure exactly what to make of what he experienced,
but he reported that he somehow felt, “lighter” although
he couldn’t explain it. I checked in with him the following
Monday and he reported that he was not sure exactly
what happened, but he attended a good friend’s party on
Saturday and it was incredible in that he was relaxed and
had fun (something he couldn’t do in recent years).
Further, explained that he experienced none of the anxiety
he had before and even the fear was gone. He didn’t think
he could ever get back to the person he used to be, but
there he was. He thanked my profusely and sincerely and I
was so happy that I could help him thanks to the Simpson
Protocol.”

Matt Morano, PhD, LPC, CHt


From an open demo in Ontario Class
“I sincerely want to say a huge thank you again for that
opportunity.
When I realized that Ines was asking for volunteers I raised
my hand right away hoping that I could finally get some
help for my issue.
You see I came back from a very long deployment in 2013
and ever since I came back I have been struggling quite a
bit with major depression disorder which consequently


26

brought back to the surface a lot of repressed memories
from my childhood.
As a result of my depression and the trauma being brought
back I started to self-medicate with alcohol. I soon became
an alcoholic and when I went to see a doctor to get help
they misdiagnosed me with something completely
irrelevant and given heavy medication which were highly
addicted.
By the summary of 2015 I could not live like that anymore.
I managed to get myself into rehab to get rid of the alcohol
issues and all the pills I was on. Once in rehab I was
diagnosed with PTSD and major depression disorder. Every
since that day I have been struggling with suicidal thoughts
and it's literally been poisoning my life cost me my
marriage my kids my job.
Even though I have been sober and clean for just over a
year the symptoms for my illnesses we're still very much
there making my life miserable. Making me wishing I
would not be alive anymore.
After Ines show me raising my hand she called me over.
She did not even need to ask me what was wrong with me.
The whole process it's pretty much a blur for me, but one
thing is sure is when emerge from the trance I already felt
happiness and Hope ....things that I had forgotten how it
feels.
It has been 24 hours now and I'm still astonished how well
and how efficient her technique is. I mean even today I'm
feeling great I'm happy I'm positive I have hope and those


27

are the word from a man who's currently going through a
nasty divorce because obvious past mistakes.
I can't even put a price or a word on what Ines did for me.
This was the best gift I could have ever hoped for. She
gave me my life back, she gave me a future something to
look forward to.
And on that note the very same night when I got home I
met with a good friend of mine who has been struggling
with hyperphagia for a very long time. Even though I did
not study The Simpsons protocol I used it on her to the
best of my abilities from what I remembered and from the
rest of the conference and I'm happy to report that my
friend is now free from her disorder.
Ines I don't think I could ever thank you enough from the
bottom of my heart thank you”
Gabe


28


Ines Simpson, the Esdaile state and
Simpson Protocol
Ines always considered herself an analytical person and
she started thinking of ways to allow herself to better let
go of her conscious mind.
After working out many of her own personal issues with a
Shaman friend and hypnotists like Fred Leidecker, she
started to understand some of the reasons why she was
who she was.
Even though she could allow herself to have regression
work done on her, she was still attempting to quiet the
continual questioning and distrust in her conscious mind,
even in somnambulism.
She still wanted to find a better way to bypass her critical
factor.  Ines often noticed that when her students went
into the Esdaile state, they still had different versions of
what was transpiring in the state.
For example, when the tests for the Esdaile state were
done, one student was adamant that he followed all
instructions and did exactly as he was told.  Yet, the entire
class told him he hadn’t moved a muscle even though he
swore he had moved his arm.  Other students know they
haven’t moved a muscle and all they really want is for the
hypnotist to go away and leave them alone.


29

In the Esdaile state, all the conscious mind wants is to be
left alone in its euphoria and peacefulness.  When Ines is
in that state and her students are doing the induction, she
reports that while she still notices everything they do, she
simply doesn’t care enough to elevate herself out of the
state at the time to address anything.  She simply stays “in
the moment” and in the Esdaile state of peaceful comfort.
Working in the Esdaile state effectively and interactively is
quite simple.  Normally, when we do pain management
work, we teach clients to leave certain parts of the body in
hypnosis.  Ines realized, “Why not just leave some part out
of hypnosis and communicate through ideomotor
response?”
Technically, she leaves the client’s arm in somnambulism,
and then directs the rest of the body to go into the Esdaile
state.  As a result, we now can interactively communicate
with the client while they are in the Esdaile state and craft
our work with the client using feedback through each
session.
This technique is explained and demonstrated in the live
classes.  The Simpson Protocol was created so all
hypnotists can use this method and incorporate it into the
way they work
The  Simpson Protocol is always evolving and Esdaile is
now only usually incorporated  for Pain Control, Birthing,
and sometimes Surgery.


30

However attaining the state is taught in all classes – and
attaining the state for Self Hypnosis is also taught
However as SP evolved and become more flexible – Ines
realized the key was not what state was achieved , but the
Relationship between the Client, and the Practitioner to
the Superconscious and this has allowed us to reach any
level or field or area that the clients mind wishes to take
us, and the client, for optimum outcome.

Ines, I just wanted to say how outstanding your one-day
training session on working in the Esdaile state and beyond was
last weekend. It really opened my eyes about an entirely new
aspect of hypnosis/hypnotherapy and working with people in
those deep states and the results you can get. Plus you were so
kind and compassionate with those of us undergoing the
experience as well as being trained in using it.  The whole thing
was really mind expanding – dare I say mind blowing – and I
want to thank you again for the fabulous job you did in taking us
to new depths – and heights.  Looking forward to more training
with you in the near future, Ines.”
– Mike Hulme, BA,DC,CHT





31

Where SP is going
THE HISTORY OF THE ESDAILE STATE AND HOW SP AND THE
ESDAILE TECHNIQUE WORK TOGETHER
When James Esdaile, a Scottish surgeon in an Indian prison
in the 1800’s, first developed this technique, anesthesia
was not available and he used this technique to help his
patients handle the pain of medical procedures.  As he
developed the technique, he found that he had to
“condition” each patient for as many as 10 days before
they could or would go into the deeper states of hypnosis
(the Esdaile State).  He needed that extensive amount of
time in order to lead his patients to that deep hypnotic
state.  (There is a journal available on line if you are
interested)
During the vaudeville acts of the late 1800’s and early
1900’s, stage hypnotists would periodically encounter
volunteers who would naturally go into the Esdaile state.
These volunteers would look like they were in a coma to
most observers and the stage hypnotists did not have the
knowledge to bring them out of the Esdaile state.  As a
result, hypnotists were often thrown in jail until the
person naturally emerged from this Esdaile state. The fear
of jail made hypnotists fear bringing clients anywhere near
that deep state for decades. (Also where this
misconception of getting stuck in hypnosis comes from)
However, during the 1950’s Dave Elman, a well-known and
admired hypnotist who taught only medical doctors


32

hypnosis, figured out a way to emerge clients who
appeared to be “stuck” in that deep state.  He then went
on to utilize and demonstrate the use of the Esdaile state
during surgery and childbirth.  However, while Dave Elman
always considered the Esdaile state to be a new frontier
and thought it would be very worthwhile when used in
hypnotic sessions, he could never determine how to utilize
it for other uses because he could never interactively
communicate with his clients while they were in that deep
state.
Ines Simpson changed all of that when she developed a
technique that gave hypnotists a means of interactively
communicating with their clients while they were in the
deeper levels of hypnosis.  This led to profound healing
opportunities that were directly done by the deepest parts
of the clients’ minds.  After attending a workshop for the
Simpson Protocol, Larry Elman, Dave Elman’s son, agreed
that this was the next level, “a significant advance in our
profession,” and one where his dad would have liked to
go.
However, as SP is always moving forward – to a simpler
and more profound process – Esdaile is an option but no
longer necessary in the SP process. SP is now exploring
Sichort and other states and levels that can be opened up
and utilized by SP.


33

Simpson Protocol Advanced

SP Advanced is an outgrowth from work students, trainers
and Ines have been doing in their SP practice. As with SP
itself, the Advanced Protocols are continually being added
to.
SP Advanced now has Protocols specifically for:
Foundational Birthing – a complete birthing Process from
Fertility to the Baby/Toddler/Mother bond with Family.
Pre and Post Op Medical Protocol, including extensive Pain
Management.
Surrogacy work with both clients and their animals! Horse
owners especially.
Complete Health Program that works at the cellular level
SP Weight and Health management program
Advanced and expanded Spiritual Development and
Energy work and a simple process for Entity and all
Negative energies removal.
Advanced SP Self Hypnosis Programs for Clients.
In development: - Fertility, Family Bonding, Coping with
Cancer, Alzheimer, working with Asthma and Arthritis,
Crones Disease and Fibromyalgia…


34


HOW and WHERE to LEARN SIMPSON
PROTOCOL
The Simpson Protocol is taught one on one directly in SP Live
Seminars. The Seminars consist of Demos, discussion and ample
practice so that the students are able and confident in the
Protocol and can literally apply it the next day in their practice.
simpsonprotocolonline.com is the website for ongoing training
for Simpson Protocol, and is available to any student of SP.

SP UPCOMING SEMINARS
You can find a listing of SP trainings at
https://simpsonprotocol.com/simpson-protocol-seminars


35

Why can I not learn Simpson Protocol
online, Ines?
INES: Never say never- right!
I once thought that SP could only be taught successfully –
Live in person

Well - I was half right – it needs to be taught LIVE – but
that can be online or in person

In 2020 with Covid-19 having an effect – we went to LIVE
online with Zoom meetings and using the Zoom Virtual
rooms for practice – and the results are – astounding.

The attendees get more info than I could ever do  in
person and we can cover more questions, more one on
one interaction – its amazing

You can see details of LIVE online trainings at
https://simpsonprotocol.com/online-training-for-simpson-
protocol

The reason I want it only taught live - is I really want to
make sure the student, recipient , of the training really
gets a good grasp and understanding- and be confident in
being able to use the protocol in their practice. It is my
baby and yes I am a little protective.

But then, I have no desire to be the biggest and most
popular protocol.

I want it to be sure that it is always accepted and used -
what can I say ' honorably?


36


It is not because the Protocol is ‘precious’ or fragile –
exactly the opposite. But for training and to have the
correct understanding – it requires a one to one
experience. Not a digital process, or learning a script or
special deepening technique

Simpson Protocol is used by a Practitioner with a client.
One to one – and this combination is part of the process.
Both in training and process.

So yes it is only taught LIVE – but it can LIVE online, or LIVE in
person


Simpson Protocol around the world

There are Certified Simpson Protocol trainers around the world,
teaching in German, French, Dutch, Portuguese, and soon
Italian, Arabic and Spanish
To find the contact info on trainers go to the
simposnprotocl.com site and look under Certified trainers
https://simpsonprotocol.com/simpson-protocol-certified-
trainers



37

Who is Dave Elman of the Elman
Induction?
Dave Elman 1900-1967
Dave Elman was born as David Kopelman on 6th May 1900
in Noord Dakota of the United States. He got interested in
hypnosis at the age of 8 years. His father died of cancer
and a relative of the family treated his father with
hypnosis to alleviate the pain which enabled his father to
play with his kids in the last days of his life. This made a
deep impression upon Dave Elman.
In his young years he worked in the show business as a
comic and as hypnotist. Elman was also a musician who
played the saxophone and violin. From 1920 he mainly
worked for the radio and changed his name to Dave
Elman. One time when a hypnotist cancelled at the last
moment his appearance he stepped in gave a spontaneous
hypnosis show. Physicians who used hypnosis in their work
and who were present at that show were so impressed by
the speed and efficiency of the hypnosis of Dave Elman
that they asked him to train them, not only for the
techniques to bring a person into hypnosis, but also to
work with fears, phobias, allergies, doing surgery with
hypnosis, regression and many other things. From that
moment Dave Elman started to teach physicians, dentists,
psychiatrists and psychologists and he trained more than
10,000 over time.
One of the most reliable and fast inductions ever
developed was the Dave Elman induction. He was
convinced that physicians would not be interested in a


38

technique if it would take more than 3-5 minutes to bring
a person into hypnosis.
In fact, he was the first person who was able to bring a
person into the state of somnambulism by design and test
the state at the same time.
Next to that he developed a reliable and testable
technique to bring a person into the Esdaile state that is a
deep state of hypnosis, named after James Esdaile, in
which a person can be hypnotized.
Dave Elman is also known for his techniques to eliminate
pain. Dave Elman was convinced that every symptom has a
cause. The purpose of hypnosis is to uncover the cause
and neutralize this.
Today in many cases Dave Elman is often not fully
understood in the sense that the core of his work with
working with mental problems was using regression to
cause in order to resolve the problem.
The doctors trained by Dave Elman performed the first
recorded open heart surgery by using hypnosis as the sole
tool for anesthesia.
The first birth of a baby with hypnosis as a way to
eliminate the pain. Dave Elman wrote about a great
number of techniques that deserve to be used in a modern
context.

• Elman was the first to bring people on purpose and
regularly to somnambulism (deep hypnosis)
demonstrating a clear process with.


39

• Elman found a way to go into the Esdaile state and
out again that worked and could be repeated
• His works in the field of pain management are still
used today and amazingly simple.


Ines Simpson’s Mentor
Gerald Kein
Already from a very young age Gerald Kein, Jerry as he is
called by friends and colleagues was fascinated by
hypnosis and read all he could about it. In his studies
found that the two greatest Hypnotists alive were Milton
Erickson and David Elman. As Dave Elman lived a short bus
ride away – he chose him as his mentor.
Mr Elman was not impressed with a 12 year old wanting to
be a hypnotist and put him off for as long as he could.
However one of Gerry’s traits is unflagging persistence,
and he eventually wore Elman down and was allowed to
work the audio tape machine to record Elman’s lectures
and demonstration with the doctors and dentists. (If you
ever hear a recording of Elman , anywhere – Gerry was the
one who recorded it)
Gerry was astounded at Elman’s demos – the speed – an
induction that took anywhere from 1 to 4 minutes and a
therapy session ( live on stage) that would take maybe half
an hour. Gerry decided this Hypnosis was for him.


40

As a young man he moved to Florida to ‘make his fortune’
in Hypnosis – with a wife, child and $30!
With talent and persistence – and taking 10 clients a day –
Jerry built up a large practice and learned ‘hands on’
everything he could about Hypnosis and its applications
In 1979 he founded the OMNI hypnosis Training Center,
currently one of the most renowned institutes of direct
hypnosis in the world. In the course of the years he trained
thousands of hypnotherapists in more than 80 countries
worldwide. Professionals from all over the world and all
kinds of disciplines followed his training. Such as
physicians, dentists, psychologists, therapists of all kinds.
Since 2015 Jerry is retired and the OMNI Hypnosis
Training Center is now in the hands of Hansruedi Wipf
from Switzerland, who is taken care that the legacy of
Gerald Kein is well taken care of.
Since that date Jerry is the honorary president of the
OMNI Hypnosis Training Center and incidentally teaches a
hypnosis class.


41


A brief history of Modern Hypnosis
From http://www.historyofhypnosis.org/
In some ways, talking about the history of hypnosis is a bit like
talking about the history of thinking or the history of breathing.
Hypnosis is a universal human trait, so its history is the history
of humanity itself. We might think of hypnotherapy – the use of
hypnosis for healing or therapeutic purposes – as a very recent
development, but its roots stretch deep into the past. Ancient
Chinese, Hindu and Egyptian texts all mention healing
procedures that are hypnotic inductions by any other name.
Called yar-phoonk in Hindu, voodoo, magic, incantation,
magnetism
That said, it’s interesting to examine the development of
hypnotherapy as a profession, as it shows an increasingly
sophisticated understanding of what hypnosis is, and what it
can be used for.
The modern era really begins with the Austrian physician Franz
Mesmer (1734-1815). Indeed, for a very long time hypnosis was
known as “mesmerism”, a word that’s still in use today. Mesmer
worked with psychiatric patients, and achieved remarkable
results. Perhaps his most famous case was that of Miss Paradis,
a concert pianist who suffered from a psychosomatic vision
disorder – “hysterical blindness” in 18th century parlance.
Mesmer worked with Miss Paradis for days on end, inducing
trance with his “mesmeric pass”, an extraordinarily complex
and lengthy set of hand movements across the body, and by
encouraging her to follow the movements of a stick reflected in
a mirror. With admirable dedication and persistence, he


42

retrained her to perceive motion and distinguish color, and to
endure daylight.
The story didn’t end happily, as Miss Paradis’ parents
demanded the return of their daughter, on the grounds that her
pension would be stopped if she recovered! Her blindness
returned once she was back in the bosom of her loving family,
and Mesmer was denounced as a charlatan and a quack.
Mesmer had always been a controversial figure, and was
dogged by accusations of fraud for the rest of his life.
Mesmer’s theories were picked up and developed throughout
the 19th century by figures such as John Elliotson (1791-1868)
and James Esdaile (1808-1859), British surgeons who used
mesmeric techniques to perform surgery, including
amputations. James Braid (1795- 1860) is another important
figure, often regarded as the “father of hypnosis”, since his
investigations established hypnosis as an area of scientific,
rather than occult, interest. He also coined the word “hypnosis”
itself, taking it from the Greek word for sleep (hypnos), after
discarding neurypnology, or “nervous sleep”.
Braid was a physician, and his interest in the phenomenon was
aroused when he arrived late for an appointment and
discovered his patient staring in intense fascination at the
flickering flames of an oil lamp. The man proved very amenable
to suggestions whilst in this state of locked attention. This
experience, together with subsequent experiments,
demonstrated to Braid that hypnosis is nothing more than a
fixation of the attention, and that a number of remarkable
things can be achieved whilst in this state
Moving into the 20th Century, practitioners such as Pierre Janet
(1859-1947) and Clark L. Hull (1884 – 1952) advanced the
scientific and academic study of hypnosis. Sigmund Freud
(1856-1939) also used hypnosis in some of his early research,


43

but soon abandoned it in favor of free association techniques.
Another significant name is that of Emile Coué (1857-1926),
who is best remembered for the phrase “day by day in every
way I am getting better and better.” Coué promoted the idea of
auto-suggestion, something which we might better understand
as self-hypnosis. He also recognized the role of the imagination
in solving problems, and was one of the first to realize that
hypnosis is something which the client participates in, rather
than something which is done to them by a hypnotist.
The two major figures of modern hypnotherapy, however, are
Milton H. Erickson (1901-1980), and Dave Elman (1900-1967).
Erickson pioneered “indirect hypnosis”, the subtle language
patterns designed to shift a patient’s perception of themselves
and their problems, without necessarily resorting to formal,
eyes-closed inductions. More importantly, he understood that
for hypnotherapy to be truly effective, it needs to be
meaningful to the individual. His whole approach was based on
understanding and working with the individual client’s view of
the world.
Elman’s book Hypnotherapy is regarded as a classic in its field.
He bridged the gap between stage hypnotism and
hypnotherapy, adapting and developing the short, sharp
techniques of the stage hypnotists for therapeutic purposes.
That which took the early mesmerists hours to achieve could
now be done in seconds.
Hypnosis in the 21st century tends to follow the pattern laid
down by Erickson and Elman, and the others who followed in
their wake. It is a brief, solution-focused practice, using rapid or
indirect techniques, and totally guided by the client. In this
respect, it is different from the authoritarian and lengthy
methods of the 19th century, but it’s essentially doing the same
thing – bringing about profound healing and change.


44

Fact or Myth in Hypnosis

Around the subject of hypnosis has accumulated a mass of
misinformation.. Here are some of the most common
fallacies concerning hypnosis and the facts based on the
best medical and psychological authorities and many years
of study and practical experience.
FALLACY: When Hypnotized – you always tell the truth
FACT: The Subconscious will ALWAYS protect the
individual – and can repeat the lie (though there is no
truth or lie to the subconscious). However at deeper
levels, we believe, – tapping into ‘higher’ levels of mind
that are more connected to – lets call it – the source of all
energy – truth will be revealed
FALLACY: Hypnotism is of the occult or supernatural
FACT: Hypnotism is scientific. It is not supernatural or of
the occult, but a purely natural manifestation of the
powers of the mind. People enter hypnosis many times a
day, awake or asleep, watching TV, driving, reading or day
dreaming.
FALLACY: A hypnotist, with the use of soothing words and
soft music -simply lulls clients off to sleep.
FACT: In the state of hypnosis the conscious mind is
completely relaxed and rested but not asleep. Whereas in
sleep the conscious mind is to some extent tense and
alert.


45


FALLACY: It’s unnatural
FACT: Hypnotism occurs in all humans at all times. The
word ‘hypnosis’ means, in lay terms, when you change
your state of mind, or consciousness. You don’t change
your condition, you change your state. When you are
happy, sad, aroused, sad, frightened, tired, hyper alert – all
of these are different states of awareness or
consciousness. All of these are forms of hypnosis.
Hypnotherapy is where hypnosis is used deliberately –
either by a practitioner Hypnotist, or by yourself to
deliberately use the state change to get a desired result
FALLACY: Weak-willed people make the best clients.
FACT: The best hypnotic clients are people with strong
wills and above average intelligence. Hypnosis actually has
nothing to do with the will: it depends upon imagination, a
faculty that is vastly stronger than the will. Therefore
bright imaginative people make by far the best clients.
FALLACY: Only a small portion of the population can be
hypnotized.
FACT: 90-95% of adults can be hypnotized to some degree.
Some people respond more rapidly than others. In an
average group, enjoying their first experience with
hypnosis, about 1 in 5 will promptly enter a deep enough
trance to get used by a stage hypnotist. There are two
classes of people who cannot be hypnotized 1) the insane
and 2) infants that are too young to understand the words


46

of the operator – though up until the age of approximate 7
years kids are in almost permanent hypnosis.
FALLACY: Very few people can hypnotize.
FACT: Any normally intelligent person can learn to
hypnotize. BUT this does not mean that everyone should.
Just as some make better doctors than others, or better
golfers, so some make better hypnotists. Moreover,
success in this skill, as in any other, demands intense study
and practice.
FALLACY: The essence of hypnotism is that the operator’s
will “dominates” that of the client.
FACT: There is no “domination” or “submission’ in
hypnosis. The hypnotist actually helps the client to release
and express his or her own latent or hidden abilities. E.G. A
man unaccustomed to speaking in public can when
hypnotized, speak fluently to an audience of thousands.
He already had the ability to do this, but suppressed it
with his own doubts and fears; and the hypnotist releases
that ability. A teacher of elocution could do the same, but
would take months to do it. Hypnosis produces a desired
result quickly.
FALLACY: A person can be hypnotized against his will.
FACT: For all practical purposes, a person must consent to
do this before he can be induced to enter the state.
However, the spoken word does not always indicate the
real desire. A skeptic, loudly denying the possibility of
hypnosis might have an unspoken wish to experience it, or
vice versa.


47

FALLACY: The hypnotist has absolute control over the
client’s mind and body.
FACT: This is the most absurd and injurious of all the
fallacies concerning hypnosis. NO hypnotist can make
anyone do or say anything contrary to their deep-rooted
principles. A girl who perhaps would not normally be seen
on the dance floor, in hypnosis, may cast off her
inhibitions and dance a vigorous twist. But a normally
modest girl certainly could not be made to disrobe
completely in front of any person, including the hypnotist.
Any suggestion that arouses sincere moral indignation or
repugnance immediately causes the client to break the
trance, by coming out of it. Thus hypnosis is not an
anaesthetic that renders the person helpless. It is a means
of releasing and intensifying a person’s own powers and
abilities.
FALLACY: Hypnotherapy requires a deep trance.
FACT: Hypnosis has many therapeutic uses, but results do
not depend on the depth of trance. Some nervous
disorders may be completely cured in the lightest state of
trance while another client with the same complaint may
need a deeper level of trance to receive the same benefits.
FALLACY: A client may not awaken after hypnosis.
FACT: There is not the slightest danger of this. If the client
were left to himself, he would fall into an ordinary sleep
and awaken normally.
FALLACY: Hypnosis is dangerous.


48

FACT: An automobile is not in itself dangerous, food is not
dangerous, and tranquilizers are not dangerous. But if
misused those things can all be dangerous. Hypnotism in
the hands of an amateur can be dangerous, but when used
properly, by a properly trained practitioner is perfectly
safe.
FALLACY: A person knows nothing when he is hypnotized.
FACT: In light and medium levels of hypnosis the client is
fully aware of what is being said and done. He may actually
deny that he was hypnotized at all. Even in deep trance
you are able to hear all that is happening.
FALLACY: Orthodox medicine condemns hypnotism.
FACT: The American (June 1958) and Canadian and British
((April 23, 1955) Medical associations accepted the
therapeutic value of hypnosis. Hypnosis is used in dentistry
and by surgeons to produce a drugless state of anesthesia
without anxiety or suffering by the client. Many orthodox
psychologists and psychiatrists use hypnosis today. The
Mayo clinic has been using hypnosis as an adjunct to
anesthesia and has a result have never had a death
attributed to the anesthetic.
FALLACY: Hypnotherapy requires many lengthy sessions.
FACT: With many patients, complete relief can be obtained
in a very short time. On some occasions only a couple of
sessions are needed, most require several.
FALLACY: Hypnotism is a new age cult thing, like crystals
and pyramids and all that.


49

FACT: Hypnotism has been around since humans have had
a conscious (and therefore unconscious mind). It has been
used deliberately as a therapy of one sort or another since
before written history.


50

INES SIMPSON BIO
I first hypnotized someone at the age of ten. My brother,
Johan, decided to get a book on hypnosis and he used me
as his “subject.”  Johan made me think that I was glued to
the wall and convinced me I had purple polka dots on my
hands. I was so intrigued by the possibilities that I talked
my best friend into spending many fun (and interesting!)
afternoons learning and practicing hypnosis. My BIG start
on what was to be my Life’s Work, much to my surprise!”
Ines Simpson has worked in many fields from the
hospitality industry to commercial fishing on Canada’s
west coast.  In her 40’s, she started to reevaluate her life
and to search for something that would fulfill her and give
her life more meaning.  Finally, in the late 90s her mother
took a hypnotherapy course and a light bulb went on!  She
pursued a career in hypnosis and became a member of the
National Guild of Hypnotists in 2000.  By 2005, she was
admitted as a faculty member by the National Guild and
continues to this day to teach as well as study to add to
her vast and growing knowledge of hypnosis.
Ines is now a board certified hypnotist with the National
Guild of Hypnotists, the largest hypnosis body in the
world. Ines was the very first certified instructor for the
NGH in western Canada. She owns and operates Advanced
Hypnosis and Training Institute, together with The Esdaile
Institute in British Columbia.  Both are Training resource
centers that offer individual services as well as advanced
Omni and Simpson Protocol training for hypnotists.


51

Ines is a great instructor because of her body of
knowledge, great skill and ability to connect with people.
She was also inducted in 2012 to the NGH’s Order of Braid
in recognition of service to professional hypnotism. Each
hypnotist inducted to the Order of Braid have enriched the
lives of others and have made a significant contribution to
the hypnosis profession.
Ines Simpson also created the Simpson Protocol, the only
way known today to effectively communicate with
hypnosis clients in the Esdaile State and beyond.  For the
first time, the hypnotist can converse with the client’s
deepest mind to learn what the true issues are and to
direct it to do what is needed to achieve the best results
possible. The Esdaile State is also the launching pad into
higher and deeper states of hypnosis.

I am very fortunate to live in an area of the world that has a
hypnotherapist instructor of Ines Simpson`s caliber. I am still
awed at the depth of her commitment to furthering the
profession of Hypnotherapy” Dave Bartlett, Campbell River,
British Columbia








52




WEBSITES:
esdaileinstitute.com: Hypnosis on-line Hub
simpsonprotoclonline.com – teaching site
simpsonprotocol.com – Simpson Protocol Info
inessimpsonhypnosis.com- Personal Hypnosis site.
selfhypnosis.esdaileinstitute.com - FREE self hypnosis site
simpsonprotocolonline.com/an-intro-to-hypnosis-video-1
- FREE Into to Hypnosis Video Series


53



Acknowledgments
Cheryl and Larry Elman and the Elman Institute for
Dave Elman bio and info and their unflagging support.
Ted Robinson for his enthusiasm and support that got
this whole show truly on the road
historyofhypnosis.org for History info and updates.
Gerry Kein for his teaching and mentorship.
All hypnotists everywhere who are creating a better
place, client by client.


©inessimpson.com – 2016


54




Limit of Liability and Disclaimer of Warranty
The authors and publishers of this book and the
accompanying materials have used their best efforts in
preparing this document. The authors and publisher
make no representation or warranties with respect to
the accuracy, applicability, fitness, or completeness of
the contents of this document. They disclaim any
warranties (expressed or implied), merchantability, or
fitness for any particular purpose. The authors and
publisher shall in no event be held liable for any loss or
other damages, including but not limited to special,
incidental, consequential, or other damages. As always,
the advice of a competent legal, tax, accounting or other
professional should be sought. The authors and
publisher do not warrant the performance,
effectiveness or applicability of any sites listed in this
book. All links are for information purposes only and
are not warranted for content, accuracy or any other
implied or explicit purpose.

Copyright © inessimpson.com 2016
Copyright © ebookpress-mge 2016





55



While attempts have been made to verify information
contained in this publication,in view of human errors or
changes in technology in the future, neither the author
nor the publisher assumes any responsibility for errors,
omissions, interpretations or usage of the subject
matter herein. This publication contains the opinions
and ideas of its author and is intended for informational
purposes only. The author and publisher shall in no
event be held liable for any loss or other damages
incurred from the usage of this publication. Every effort
will be made to correct any incorrect or inaccurate
information – and corrections can be emailed to
mhenderson131@gmail.com

Copyright © inessimpsonhypnosis.com 2016,2020
Copyright © ebookpress-mge 2016,2020